---
title: Blockchain technology for IoT system
date: 2019-03-11 13:45:45
tags: 
    - blockchain
    - IoT
---
*This is an assignment in CMPT376 course. We were requested to do some research on big data topics and give a proposal like following. This article contains my understanding and thoughts of blockchain from previous working experience.*

## A Proposal to Research the Blockchain solution for Decentralized Internet of Things Ecosystem

### Introduction
The Internet of Things (IoT) has spread widely and can be seen in many places, like shipping, factories or smart homes. However, the lack of trust and standardization prevents end-users from faithfully using all services on IoT and prevent different IoT networks from cooperating with each other for better performance and higher scalability. IoT will connect everyone and everything in the future as an unstoppable trend. Hence, a feasible and handy solution to improve IoT is necessary. This proposal includes several methods based on blockchain to build a better IoT ecosystem.  

### Problem description
IoT systems now are all operated and maintained by centralized companies and data produced in IoT are stored in centralized databases, which are only accessible by the company and authorized third-party organizations. Customers have no control of their own data once they agreed on terms of services. The security and privacy of data is hard to guarantee.  
In the previous research of Bin, where blockchain is discussed and studied, he concluded that *“blockchain can be applied to develop a trusted device and data trading platform for the IoT ecosystem where different entities can cooperate with each other”* [1]. Blockchain is a new data-sharing model raised by Satoshi in his paper introducing Bitcoin in 2008 [4] and it is a good solution for removing centralized organizations and trading in untrusted environments.  
IoT and Blockchain are both distributed and dynamic, which makes it easy to apply blockchain technology into IoT ecosystem. Advantages of blockchain like immutability, decentralization and cryptography can improve or even remove weaknesses of IoT system. Three key weaknesses of IoT systems are outlined below:  
* Lack of communication among participants. In a traditional IoT system, participants in the network are always not conscious of other indirectly connected participants. For example, in the smart home system, there are three types of participants: customers, device manufacturer and data analysts. Customers always know who produced the devices but have no idea which organization is analysing their personal data. Customers can only put their trust in the producing company and hope that the analyst, whom they do not know, will not abuse their data. Evaluating and ranking analysing organizations is impossible for customers, let alone customizing analysis service.  
* Lack of data management. Centralized nodes in IoT systems, like the device manufacturer or authorized third-party, have full control of all collected data, while customers have limited knowledge about how their personal data is used. There is also no possibility for users to reclaim or delete their data once data is collected or transferred by IoT devices. Security and privacy of personal data then only depends on morality and justice of centralized company, but no end-user control or standardized restriction. Personal data should be a thing that can be managed by its owner during its whole lifecycle, no matter where the data is stored or maintained.  
* Isolation of device and data. IoT networks are like discrete islands, where inhabitants speak different languages. IoT networks are isolated from each other and have barely no connection. Devices in one IoT network, just like inhabitants on one island, have a communication protocol that is different from another IoT network, which makes it hard for devices between two networks to exchange data or even cooperate. Two centralized companies need to add additional middlewares in order to let their IoT devices communicate. With the number of communicating networks increases, the growth of additional middlewares is exponential, which is inefficient. Therefore, building a world-wide internet IoT system connecting all devices is too costly due to the lack of device standardization.

### Objectives
Targeting on the three main weaknesses of IoT systems, following blockchain methods are set as goals in this proposal:
* Build a decentralized system. Every participant in this system can talk with each other instead of surrounding a centralized company and passing all data and commands to the centralized node. With the nature of decentralization, blockchain can fulfill this goal easily. By registering all IoT devices as well as producers and customers on the blockchain, they will become identical nodes on chain and have one unique id, which makes it easy to identify and interact with other nodes. An identity management system on blockchain is an ideal approach, where Universal Unique IDs (UUID) are generated and maintained. Nodes will query their UUID at the first time joining networks.  
* Separate storage and usage of data. In traditional IoT systems, centralized companies can use user data because they store the data or, more specifically, they own the data. But this is not right. It should be the customers that own their personal data. Customers can give the right to use data to some organizations for analysis, and reclaim the right whenever they want. In this case, entries of IoT will change: there are some nodes that are customers; there are some nodes that store encrypted data; there are some nodes that are IoT devices who upload data; and there are some nodes that are analysts who can get data directly from storing nodes if given usage right. Personal data will be well protected because they are encrypted. Only the customer who has the key to decrypt his own data, so storing nodes know nothing about the data they keep.  
* Define a standard for all IoT devices. Once there is a standardized protocol for IoT devices, devices can communicate easily. IoT devices then will not only be an input of data, but can also be a consumer of data from other devices. One device could gather some data from several other devices once authorized, make some process, and finally do something bigger. For example, in a smart home, smart window reads data from remote weather station node, and finds that there is a storm coming. Then the window will close itself, as reflection after processed weather station data. On blockchain this kind of standard can be defined in smart contracts, and every device will have the same interface.  

### Significance
A blockchain framework with all objectives above implemented will form a totally different IoT ecosystem. The system will be transparent for all nodes connected, and the status, evaluation, basic information and everything of one specific node can be checked. Hence, if an analysing company abuses user data, its bad record will be kept forever on blockchain and everyone can see. Customers can turn to another analysing service whenever they want, and once they stop using service, no one is able to read their personal data, not even the previously used data. Devices can cooperate with each other for some bigger missions, which may be impossible for now. For example, smart cars on road can sense each other to avoid collision, and notify the music player to work when it arriving home.  

### References
[1] B. Yu, J. Wright, S. Nepal, L. Zhu, J. Liu and R. Ranjan, *“IoTChain: Establishing Trust in the Internet of Things Ecosystem Using Blockchain,"* in IEEE Cloud Computing, vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 12-23, Jul./Aug. 2018.  
[2] J. Voas, *Network of 'Things'*, NIST Special Publication 800-183, NIST, 2018; https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/specialpublications/nist.sp.800-183.pdf.  
[3] R. Ranjan et al., *"The Next Grand Challenges: Integrating the Internet of Things and Data Science,"* in IEEE Cloud Computing, vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 12-26, May./Jun. 2018.  
[4] S. Nakamoto, *“Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,”* 2008; https://bitcoin.org/en/bitcoin-paper.  
[5] C. Cachin, *“Architecture of the Hyperledger blockchain fabric,”* Workshop on Distributed Cryptocurrencies and Consensus Ledgers, 2016.  